How to Get Into Mountain Climbing

    climbing web

Tips Before Climbing A Mountain

By Dony Fasius Edy Endro

In our earlier article, they talked about six practical tips, while in this piece they are going to tackle about seven additional pieces of advice for your great trekking adventure.

1. Plan. if it will be your first time! Nothing can ever beat lovely planning. You need to plan out strategies on how to make your adventure worth recalling.

2. Aim for a more challenging climb next time. You may opt for expedition peaks as your next cease since they need long walks, great technical climbing skills and mountaineering expertise. So each time you go for a climb, make it a aim.

3. Get an experienced and reliable guide. Make sure that you get guidance from an accredited guide who is connected to a reputable mountaineering operator. Keep in mind that your trekking experience will be affected by altitude and terrain. Thus, it is very crucial that an experienced companion is at bay.

4. Be prepared. In the event you are living away from the mountain you are planning to visit, make sure to book for your flight (or transportation) and accommodation the moment you reach the area near the adventure.

5. Before hitting the summit, some climbers may need to stay in a base camp for some time. Find out if your mountaineering adventure requires such. Incidentally, when you are in your base camp, maximize your stay by checking if all of your gears are intact and complete.

6. Start hitting the mountain. Yes, start to climb.

7. Descend only when you still have time to get down safely.
Climbing Half Dome the Challenge of a Lifetime

    rock climbing guide

The fact they hadn't done Half Dome bugged me from the time they departed the park that year despite our having had a great trip up to the top of Yosemite Falls.

They found ourselves back in the park years later this time in the work of the 'right' time of year to climb Half Dome. After 'surviving' the night at the motel they were on the road early heading to the trail head. After ensuring out pack lots were secure they headed up the trail head towards Vernal Falls. You reach a lovely section known as the 500 steps because carved in to the rock are about 500 steps. To add to this challenge the mist from the falls makes this section wet and slippery to negotiate. Near the top the trail gets narrow as you hug the rock wall of the falls itself. Next they would be tackling the steep climb up to Nevada Falls and then the level hike in to Tiny Yosemite Valley where they planned to setup camp for the night.

After expending energy to lug 40+ lb. packs up over Vernal Falls they were walking on empty as they started up the trail on the left side of Nevada Falls. There is a magnificent view from the top of Nevada Falls looking downstream at Vernal Falls and the Merced river crashing through the valley.

After Nevada Falls it was a level hike to Tiny Yosemite Valley where they had a permit to camp for the evening. note, there's plenty of individuals who do the whole trip from Yosemite Valley to the top of Half Dome and back all in the same day. In case you are short on time that is an option but in case you have the time we have found it is much more enjoyable to make it a three day event. Day going from the valley to Tiny Yosemite Valley. Day two, hiking up to Half Dome and returning to Tiny Yosemite Valley and on day three hiking back out to the valley.
The Tiny Yosemite camping area is nice if a bit crowded. They have solar toilets and designated camp sites. Forget about finding firewood as the crowds who visit have burned much every stick unfortunate to fall to the ground. The preliminary hike to Half Dome from Tiny Yosemite Valley is flat but then the switchbacks start. From the bottom this section seems impossible but as you climb up it there is indeed a trail. When they reached the top of the shoulder Half Dome in all it is glory stood before us. It was an wonderful view until they saw the cables!

The top of Half Dome is much larger than they had anticipated and fundamentally flat.
A must see feature on the top of Half Dome is the 'Diving Board'. The Yosemite Falls which are across the valley from Half Dome were dripping down their rock wall. Still, the views from the top of Half Dome are awe inspiring.

After spending a couple of hours on top it was time for our descent. Finally they made it to the bottom of the cables and commenced down the shoulder. They had climbed Half Dome.
